# Blog    
  
This blog is a collection of musings of mine. They are not tied to any one thing
in particular. They are not the views of my employer.  
  
In an initial post one should probably talk about the things they are trying to
accomplish with their blog. I really just figured it would be worth documenting
my own thoughts and progress with the various things I try. I'm quite fond of
getting to a certain point in a project and not doing much else with it. Maybe
having a blog will help me rectify this.  
  
So what's the first thing I'm going to be trying with this blog? The other week
I was fortunate enough to be able to sign up to a CompTIA Network+ certification
course. Those of you who have had opportunity to meet me have heard me talk at
great length about wanting to 'break into security'. I've been talking about it
for a very long time, but I have failed to achieve it. Here I plan to document
my current and future attempts.  
  
## Will certification help?
  
In short, I don't know.  
I've read in many places that it won't. I have heard in BSides talks and read on
blogs that certain certs won't help at all. "You should just do the OSCP and try
harder." or "Well, I mean the CEH isn't bad, but it's not well recognized." The
responses are as many and varied as there are people active in the online
security community. And no two people will tell you the same story.  
  
Will a cert get me the job? Let's be honest, probably not. There are plenty of
instances of people with certification not getting a job in the area they're
certified in. Equally, there are plenty of people with no certifications working
in many fields that claim to require them. So what will a cert get me? It'll
give me a format to learn information. That is it. The rubber stamp says "Hey, I
know this stuff" but really, it's a way to learn things. I could learn
networking without the CompTIA course, but for me a sense of reassurance around
my knowledge is important.  
  
We all come from different backgrounds with different experiences. I've a bit of
software dev, a bit of sys-admin, a bit of customer support, a bit of QA. Am I a
master at any of these? No. Do I try to get better at them? Yes. Self
improvement is, from what I've seen, the most important aspect of security work.
Keep trying, and don't give up. I'd like to add to that, don't immediately
dismiss something because it hasn't worked for others. Hence, I've decided to
take on the Network+. I know enough about networking to be dangerous, but not
enough to be truly dangerous. So let's improve my knowledge, let's see what this
CompTIA course is all about.  

## Are we talking about the cert yet?
  
What are my initial thoughts?  
I started the course last week and I'm trying to make sense of it. There's a lot
of information. I was warned that I will learn more about cables than I ever
thought I would need to know. That may yet happen, hopefully it does. I have no
real hopes from this, get a better understanding is the obvious end goal.  
  
Let's see what we can learn of networking...
  

