# Things I had to learn thrice part 1  

This is a collection of things I already know. I already knew them years ago,
and I repeated them ad nauseam to others as pieces of advice. Yet I never really
took heed of them myself.  
  
### Give yourself time.  
  
Look, I understand it, we all want to be there already. And as you look at it
everyone is getting there fast. If you're involved in a community, be it Infosec
or development, or operations, or painting, or whatever it may be, it looks like
others are getting there every other day. Michelle popped a box last week, Frank
has landscape mountains down so easy.  
  
The fact is everyone works at different paces. They are not you. They're not me
either. To compare ourselves to them makes light of the progress we have made.
We must also try to remember Michelle and Frank are both looking at others that
we can't see and are thinking "I wish I could get it as easily as them, they've
made it so simple". It's perfectly natural to look at others and try to compare
ourselves to them, but that's not what we should be doing. It's not either Tony
_or_ me. It will be both eventually.  
  
### It's never as easy as it seems.  
  
There are always complications. They may be small, they may be fundamental and
huge, but they will always pop up. They are what turn a project from being a
week of evenings into several months of evenings. Understand this, accept it,
and double _all_ your estimates. 
  
I've had projects that were simple concepts. For example let's take this one
subtask and break it out into its own thing such that the one final subtask
isn't hogging processing power. Simple enough. The architecture was designed in
a way that clearly indicated a solution. Create the queue, schedule the job,
take the task and phrase it as a stand alone command, hit go... and off it goes.
But of course it wasn't that simple. It never is.  
  
The project required a definite end of a parent process. Thanks to feature creep
and the sprawling mess that is legacy software there was none. So first we had
to figure out where to put the exit point. You can, I'm sure, imagine how that
can be a lot easier said than done. This is the real issue. As Donald Rumsfeld
has said: "There are known knowns. These are things we know that we know. There
are known unknowns. That is to say, there are things that we know we don't know.
But there are also unknown unknowns. There are things we don't know we don't
know."  
  
This is why it's never as easy as it seems and there are always complications.

### Avoid the weeds and long grass.  
  
You look at a problem and break it down.  You break it down further and further
until you think you've found the most basic aspect of it... then there's more to
it. There will always be smaller and smaller components and considerations.
Look at a website, even this one. What's the most basic thing I need to know to
create it? How to write my ideas down?  How to write HTML? How to write
markdown? How about design and layout? HTML, Markdown, CSS, maybe Javascript if
I want to get fancy? How about DNS? I have my own domain name that points
here... do I need to understand how that works?  
  
The list goes on and on. Further down the rabbit hole, deep into the long grass
and weeds. There are a multitude of analogies that could be used. Learn how to
spot when that is happening and try to prevent yourself from getting drawn in.
I have been particularly fond of doing this over the years. It is something I am
working to fix even now.  
  
  
This list is not complete. I will be adding to it in time. New posts in this 
series will linked here:
